Curriculum Vitae, version February 2017

## Marten Vijn

* jobs@martenvijn.nl,
* http://martenvijn.nl, http://nl.linkedin.com/in/martenvijn
* Born in Almelo, 31-01-1967
* European driving license B

### Education 

* HBO, physical and occupational therapy, graduated 1994 and 2000
* MDGO-sd, graduated, 1988
* MAVO-D, graduated, 1984

### Skills 

* Creative thinking and proactive problem resolving, improving and automating processes
(re)Designing, developing and deploying solutions, driven to make thing work.
* Communicative, clear interaction with users, colleagues and management, sensitive
* Giving talks, workshops and writing papers and documentation
* Fixing issues pragmatically.

### Experience

* 2014 - current :: Divider B.V.
Here I have role as Linux Engineer using Debian, Ubuntu, Redhat, Centos and Solaris systems runnig on hardware and Xen virtualisation. As part of the devops team I am forfilling the role of deploying and maining platforms on a large scale using Ansible and other tools. Administration covers legacy maintaince aswel automated deployments. I am also one of the designers of a pilot for a IoT platform to monitor power outages using KPN's LoRaWan IoT network. For logging and monitoring I have recent experiance with Zabbix, syslog, Logstash/Elasticsearch/Kibana and the use enterprise message brokers like Mosquitto and RabbitMQ. I am getting more an more familiar to use python for connectors,parsers and api scripts. I write shell scripts for several common tasks in the unix landscape. I have good network skills.  

* 2012 - current :: Stichting MakerSpace Leiden
MakerSpace Leiden is a community driven, not-for-profit foundation providing workshops, tools and a social network for about 50 makers in de Leiden area. Besides administrating the makerspace infrastructure like servers (FreeBSD/Debian), networks, wifi and LoRaWan, I give workshops in arduino programming, Internet of Things (IoT) and metalworking. I am one the driving forces in the Leiden Maker community finding ways to get things to work for the community. I am also a founder and chairman of the foundation. As a member I make things like lamps, geodesic domes, IoT sensors and actuators.
 
* 2010-2014 :: ISSC, Leiden University
Migration of smaller departments to central facilities, working on long term solutions based on open source and standards. Learing how to to operate in a large IT invironment and evolving to ITIL3, Prince2 and Togaf enterpise architecture.

* 2007-2010 :: Mathematical Institute, Leiden University
I designed, developed and implemented projects like: improving remote administration, a configuration and change management system, a layered security model. I introduced new technologies for the current high availability setup. Recent projects are a highly scalable desktop environment on Ubuntu Linux and a user satisfaction review. Daily tasks are the administration of 450 user accounts, (wireless) network, firewalls, 30 servers, 150 desktops using Linux and FreeBSD. I have set up a wiki server with documentation for administrators and users. I have organised a workshop on maintenance FreeBSD and NanoBSD for colleagues. 

* 2006-2008 :: Space Research Nederland 
Here I redesigned and deployed a mailserver setup to improve performance and decrease the amount of servers. I introduced a
software version control system and a collaboration platform for colleagues. Daily tasks are the administration of 60 desktops
and 30 servers on Debian Linux, backups, software and hardware updates.

* 2000-2002 :: Cultural Center de X
I migrated a small office environment from Windows NT to Linux. I introduced firewalls, improved network performance and
access control. Weekly administration tasks are backups and system updates

* 1994-2006 :: Working in health care
as physical and occupational therapist in nursing home, hospital and rehabilitation.
My expertise is mainly in the treatment of brain damage and lower limb amputation.

### Projects
* 2012 - current :: Internet of Things
Playing with and building IoT infrastructures using LoRaWan and WiFi, opening doors and enlightening workplaces. 

* 2010-2011 :: RepRap 3D-printing
A group of 5 technians work on the RepRap project to build self replicating 3D-printers.
My roles are organising, (re-)designing on impacting group processes to attchief a flow of progress and successes. I learn a lot
about hardware, extrusion proceses, embedded software (arduino) and electronics (atmel, stepper drivers and pcb-debugging).
I am also involved in financial aspects and online documentation.

* 2008-2010 :: Network Event Kit (NEK)
is a mobile network kit to deploy wireless network for events up to 1000 people, it
is funded by NLnet. It is based on open source software and I do the design and development. Current development heads
towards an open source wireless controller.

* 2005-2012 :: Open Community Camp (OCC)
is a yearly camp for open source technicians. I am one of the founders and
organisers of the OCC. We create a place to work and learn on a non-for-profit basis for about 70 people. My roles are chairman of the foundation, the planning and organisation, public relations, the speaker program, wireless network and giving workshops.

* 2001-2006 :: Wireless Leiden
is a major community wireless network. Here I designed and deployed images for embedded
systems, administration of routers, configuration and change management.  I fulfilled tasks as designer, project leader,
technical trainer and board member.

### Ongoing education, courses and conferences
* 2017  :: NB-IoT T-mobile
* 2016 :: LoRaWan workshop KPN/RDM-makerspace and The Thingsnetwork
* 2015 :: Communication Traning, Stichting de Boogschutter
* 2014 :: Ripe administation and IPv6
* 2012 :: OCC, Fosdem, ITIL3 certification, ApacheCon-EU
* 2011 :: OCC, Fosdem, Togaf certification, Prince3 certification
* 2010 :: OCC, Fosdem, NLUUG systeembeheer, Why-Fi workshop, EuroBSDcon, T-Dose
* 2009 :: OCC, Fosdem, T-Dose, EuroBSDcon with Kirk McKusick’s Tutorial, ApacheConEu, Sugar Camp Paris, HAR
* 2008 :: OCC, NLUUG security, EuroBSDcon, T-Dose, ApacheConEu, BSD community day
* 2007 :: OCC, Fosdem, EurobsdCon, ApacheConEU, T-Dose, MediaWiki, Software freedom day
* 2006 :: OCC, Tunix Firewall
* 2005 :: EuroBSDcon, WTH
* 2004-2009 :: Essence Trainings, personal effectivity and leadership trainings (Essence, Source, Dialogica, MOB, Challenge)

### Given Talks and workshops
* Several Workshop at the MakerSpace, makerspace infrastructure, arduino/esp8622 programming and Raspberry-Pi, Leiden 2015-2017 
* The Pixies Project , Barcamp Leiden 2010, Open Community Camp 2010
* Building and maintaining NanoBSD, for colleagues on University of Leiden 2009
* Network Event Kit, BSD community dag 2008, Moodlemoot 2009, OpenCommunityCamp 2009, EuroBSDcon 2009, T-Dose 2009
* TinyBSD and TinyBSD workshops, OpenCommunityCamp 2008, EuroBSDcon 2008
* OpenCommunityCamp, Free Software Day 2007
* Wifi and dynamic routing on FreeBSD, Open Community Camp 2006
* The node factory and nodefactory hands-om training WirelessLeiden 2005, WOAF 2005

### IT related publications
* The Innovation Journey of Wi-Fi, 2010, Wolter Lemstra, Vic Hayes, John Groenewegen (contribution)
* The Pixie	Project, 2010,	Marten Vijn, Martijn Feleus
* ICT user satisfaction, 2010, Marten Vijn, Martijn Feleus
* Kickstart	of the Network Event Kit, 2009, Marten Vijn
* Wireless netwerk dekt Leiden, 2005, Marten Vijn,	Gerard	Mourits
* Building a Wireless Community	Network	in the Netherlands, 2003, Rudi van Drunen, et al. (contribution)

### A more random wordsoup
* Hardware, operating systems, software and programming arm, 32-bit and 64-bit servers and desktops, XO-laptops,Routers, switches, firewalls, Soekris, Wrap, Alix, arduino, pic-chips, esp8622 and Raspbery-pi.
* GNU/Linux (since 2.0.18), mainly Debian, Ubuntu, SLES, RHEL/Centos, FreeBSD (since 4.6)
mqtt, nfs, bind, isc-dhcp, sendmail, postfix, nis, ldap, kerberos, clamav, spamd, mailman, KDE, Gnome, svn, trac, mediawiki,apache, mysql, OSPF, BGP, lvrouted, openoffice, gdb, kstrace strace, fsck ldapvi, TinyBSD, NanoBSD, dpkg apt, tcpdump, conky,
ping, nagios, aop, cu, cacti, snmp(trap), netflow, ntop, snort, gpg, kismet, aircrack-ng, nfs, samba, vi, perl, ruby, shell, php,
casper, pxeboot, drupal, moodle, lyx, driftnet, ossec, sshfs, graphiz, rrd, puppet, mfsBSD, dbs, pf, altq, iptables, carp, pen,
pound,
* shell (major), python, some ruby, some perl, php (minor), C (limited) 

### Hobbies
* sport climning, bouldering
* bikram yoga, mediation, mantra singing
* Playing around with linux and *BSD operating systems, domotica, electronica
* Jogging
* RepairCafe
